Fundamentals of java Assignment 1


1) what is programmig language?
- Programming language is set of instructions that instruct a computer how to carry out a task.
-Category of Programming Languages:

● Machine Level Language
● Assembly language
● High-level languages

2)Why do we need a programming language?
- programming languages are crucial for enabling effective communication between humans and computers, facilitating problem-solving, automating tasks, driving innovation, and supporting the development of a wide range of software applications.That's why we need a programming language.

3) what are the features of java?
- ● Simple
● Object-Oriented
● Portable
● Platform independent
● Robust
● Distributed
● Dynamic

4) what is an object ?
- An object is an entity with state and behaviour.
-object is an instance of a class
-object is used to model real-world entities by encapsulating their properties (attributes) and behaviors (methods) into a single unit. 

5) what is class?
- A class is a collection of objects that have similar traits, behaviours, and attributes.
-  A class is a blueprint or a template that defines the structure and behavior of objects. It contains data members (fields) and methods.

6) Explain about the main() method in Java?
-In Java, the main method is a special method that serves as the entry point for a Java application. When you run a Java program, the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) looks for the main method to start the execution of the program. The main method must have a specific signature.
●syntax:
              public class MyClass {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        // The code inside this method is executed when the program starts.
    }
}

- public and static: These are access modifiers indicating that the main method is accessible from outside the class (public) and can be called without creating an instance of the class (static).

void: This keyword indicates that the main method does not return any value.

main: This is the name of the method. It is the conventional entry point for Java applications.

String[] args: This is the parameter of the main method, where args stands for arguments. It allows you to pass command-line arguments to your Java program. The String[] array holds the command-line arguments as strings